mediators are trying to reach a
ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas
Israel says if the group rejects its
latest offer it'll go ahead with a
ground invasion of Rafa where more than
1 and a half million Palestinians are
Sheltering Let's uh cross over to East
occupied East Jerusalem Berner Smith is
standing by for us there Bernard where
are these ceasefire talks right
now sah we know that Hamas has said it
will send a delegation to Cairo on
Monday and that Del delegation will
discuss the ceasefire proposal it was
presented by katar and Egypt as well as
Israel's response and we know that Hamas
said on Friday that it had received
Israel's response to this ceasefire
proposal and was studying it since then
Hamas has released videos showing Proof
of Life of three of the captives in the
last uh few days stepping up the
pressure on the Israeli government
headed by Benjamin Netanyahu but we know
that previous ceasefire talks have
floundered because of the failure to
bridge the gap between the two sides
that Gap being that Hamas is insisting
on an end to the war and a withdrawal of
Israeli forces from Gaza and Israel has
only ever been offering a temporary
ceasefire in return for the release of
about 130 odd captives and more
humanitarian Aid getting in to Gaza
Israel refusing to fully withdraw
because it hasn't yet achieved its
objectives according to Benjamin
Netanyahu and that is the destruction of
Hamas the destruction of its ability to
attack Israel so while the Israeli
government might be trying to put
pressure on the Palestinians the Israeli
government itself is under pressure not
just uh from the US and various uh
Global capitals trying to make sure that
it doesn't go into Rafa but also
pressure from another Direction within
the Israeli cabinet itself prime
minister Netanyahu really does have his
hands full
yeah well he's under enormous pressure
from different sides of his cabinet
really from the far right we've had uh
bezel smotrich the Finance Minister
saying that if uh Netanyahu agrees to
Egypt's proposals that would constitute
a humiliating defeat we though don't
know what those Egyptian proposals are
and also itar benav another far at
Minister saying that if Netanyahu agrees
to whatever these proposals are it would
lead to the dissolution of the
government but then from a member of his
War cabin at the center right Benny Gans
he says an invasion or an operation in
Rafa is important but the return of
hostages is more important there have
been regular protests in Israel against
Netanyahu accusing him of prolonging the
war because if he ends the war then that
will lead to elections ultimately and
his own Reckoning at The Ballot Box so
accusations he's prolonging the war and
not considering the hostages while
there's enormous pressure from the far
right to go into Rafa regardless of what
might happen to those hostages Bernard
Smith there for us in occupied East
Jerusalem thank you
let's make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer